Isana O'Neil is a 23 year old adult I
don't think it should really be so
important that she happened to be a
former amateur bikini model I don't
think that's what really matters in life
and I don't think that's what really
matters in this discussion we're having
right now Essen O'Neil today is a 23
year old adult with a blog about
politics and as it happens she very
vaguely associates herself with extreme
left-wing politics very vaguely she also
associate herself with New Age
spirituality the very eclectic occult
reinterpretation of Christianity and
psychedelic drugs the use of
hallucinogenic drugs links to that err
sad spirituality and for her political
contribution to 21st century discourse
she received glowing praise completely
mind-blowing one-sided positive
propaganda praise in the influential
famous internationally renowned
mainstream newspaper called The Guardian
I cannot imagine this same praise being
given to a 23 year old man who'd written
the same garbage that we find on SN
O'Neill's blog I cannot imagine the same
lack of skepticism being applied to the
fact that she raised $10,000 in
donations to start this blog and then
you're looking at this blog you really
have to wonder with $10,000 right I
cannot imagine even a male athlete or a
male swimsuit model you know like a guy
who formally earned his living wearing
swimsuits on Instagram being treated in
the way that the Guardian newspaper is
here treating s no Neil in her new role
as shall we say political commentator
all-in-all O'Neill had raised about
$10,000 for her new content
project in an interview with the vlogger
and pop culture critic Tiffany Ferguson
this is also a great example where
professional journalism consists of
somebody watching a YouTube video and
then typing up their thoughts about it
standards for journalism have fallen not
least of off the cart Ian anyway in this
YouTube video that the journalist
watched an SN O'Neill recently explained
that she donated some of the money to
charity and the rest she spent on rent
good for her
her new project this is where the
$10,000 went this is the where the
$10,000 content creation project went
her new project is a website Authority
within its inspired by the long captions
and sense of community she was found on
tumblr a podcast is forthcoming this for
a 23 year old adult good for her good
for the message goes beyond easy after
isms such as be kind to your body or
Trish very good friendship I'm sorry I'm
gonna give you a few quotations from
acid O'Neill's website but like this
journalist must have been struggling to
see something positive something
flattering about the completely
incoherent garbage that's an SN
O'Neill's website it's not well written
it's not well researched it's not
interesting it's not even impressive for
someone who's a former bikini model to
string these words together it's not and
we shouldn't dehumanize bikini models
you can be a bikini model and be
intelligent you can be a bikini model
and be you don't go to university and
develop some kind of sophisticated view
of politics all right I I don't want
anyone to make the excuse that we should
lower our standards because she's female
rather than male I don't want anyone to
lower their standards because she's a
former bikini model that should be
irrelevant if you spent a few years of
your life
posting bikini pictures to Instagram you
should still hold yourself to a standard
of excellence and the journalists at the
Guardian newspaper should only do a skid
standard of excellence also and if you
publish a book
the publisher should only do the same
standard of excellence as anyone else it
shouldn't matter it fundamentally
shouldn't be so important especially in
the context of politics that she used to
be a bikini model
okay so pardon me I mean I'm I'm
passionate about that all of us did
other things in our youth I mean so what
I had a background in the theater case
you can't tell and he'll make use of my
might a miniscule education in acting
every day coming here on YouTube and
talk to you about politics but it's not
the most important thing about me I took
a couple of theater classes do I get
more use out of the classes I took in
theater or the classes I took in
political philosophy you tell me this is
YouTube right but this journalist
intriguing to uncritically praise this
blog the compliment she manages to give
is that her message s O'Neill's message
goes beyond easy aphorisms such as be
kind to your body or treasure real
friendships yes will high praise indeed
after falling hard into her constructed
selfhood this is such woke verbiage
spending five years in the endless cycle
of consumption then wandering off into
the digital wilderness for four years
it seems O'Neil has become a materialist
period not the kind that accepts free
clothes and jewelry the kind that's
reading Karl Marx for the Guardian
newspaper to say that you're reading
Karl Marx as high praise for more of a
conservative newspaper it might be an
insult I defy you to find any evidence
in the writing in the written corpus of
work from s O'Neil I defy you to find
any evidence that she's reading Karl
Marx that she ever has read Co Marx
here's a little quotation for you a
little sample and I've got to tell you
something there isn't all that much text
on the whole website anyway so we're
quoting a significant percentage of what
there is to be read they're looking back
at our history is accumulating wealth a
bit of a weird trip for the rich and
repeatedly awful experiences for the
poor are the vast majority of us working
really long hours and barely keeping up
does it need to be this way could we
share and transfer some of our sums
maybe some of this insane
growth close quote could transfer to
real societal stability feel like this
sounds too obvious feel like most people
I see in my area are not okay
same for lots of other places right now
s no Neil thank you for your
accomplishment why is it that you are
being praised in the pages of The
Guardian newspaper for this unbelievably
awful writing you managed to string
together why it's because we still have
a society that treats adult women like
infants because we have a society that
looks at you at age 23 and Pat's you on
the head and says good for you when your
level of writing about politics would
not even be good for a high school
student okay a 16 year old male would
not be praised for this this would not
get an a-plus as a high school level
book report about politics and this is
being praised in The Guardian newspaper
why why why Wow just because you are or
you used to be a good-looking female
it's sick and guys a large part of this
is you know this crazy left-wing
psychedelic you know hallucinogen driven
so called spirituality quote the Essenes
are my favorite Society to study the
synchronistic Dead Sea Scrolls story
gives me the good trippy feels do I even
need to keep reading this the Essenes
and the Dead Sea Scrolls give her the
good trippy feels what was the editorial
meeting at the Guardian newspaper like
when they pitched this story why why
just stop treating adult women like
infants she's 23 years old if this were
to be reviewed in a serious political
publication she should be getting
scorned she should be getting critique
she should be being told to be held to a
higher standard than this but no quote
the dark simple truth of our time the
dream of the rulers is the majority's
nightmare the lucky few noble Joe
and ones are living in material heaven
while the rest of the world slaves away
in personal gradients of hell surely it
can't be that simple question mark
exclamation point yes and The Guardian
newspaper is praising you for having
made the shift from doing advertising
deals with clothing and Julie brands to
reading marks to being a materialist to
being this inspiring left-wing thinker
who kicked off her website with a ten
thousand dollar budget and this was the
best she could come up with all right so
the praise continues here this is going
back to our journalists at the Guardian
reading authority within reading Essen
O'Neill's website feels a little like
falling into a leftist YouTube wormhole
or hazy conversation in the early hours
of the morning it's disorienting
stylized and very far from reading let
me just read to you would you call that
stylized right in if it were written by
a 16 year old or 18 year old what if
your 18 year old cousin presented this
to you and said what do you think about
it when you sit back oh yeah this this
could be praised in the pages of the The
Guardian newspaper many have referred to
this as class war or recently conflict
theory Wow man those undergraduate
courses weren't wasted on you at all
Asuna I mean this is supposed to be the
profound reading of Karl Marx that were
praising in the pages of The Guardian
newspaper I mean it doesn't even sound
to me like she's read a Wikipedia
article about Marxism or crawl marks and
hey what can we expect from the future
if we sign up if we start donating money
to support s Anna and her work as an
author well she's gonna keep working on
her novel she's gonna build a she's
gonna continue her research into the
Essenes and an ancient cultures that
jive with her you know self-guided
hallucinogen driven you know psychedelic
hippie [ __ ] one of the questions
I've asked my professors directly
face-to-face was about the pursuit of
excellence because I've seen the mandate
for my department at the University of
Victoria and I've seen their job
descriptions and they all talk about
excellence they say okay you are
committed to the pursuit of excellence
in teaching this and researching this in
doing this the department is supposed to
pursue excellence and one of the
questions I've asked my professors is
what does excellence mean to you in what
way as this department pursuing
excellence in teaching the Chinese
language in teaching Chinese politics in
the research and teaching of history and
politics of Asia possesses the
department does and you know when you
look at these things ultimately yeah
there are a lot of caddy questions we
could ask about the double standard and
why is it that the standards are lowered
so much for women particularly younger
good-looking women and so on and the
deeper practical question we have to ask
ourselves is what is the pursuit of
excellence and how can we positively
encourage one another right because you
know what it's a very positive thing
that even an imbecile like SN O'Neill
has gotten motivated to try to do
something more positive her life to try
to study politics or economics or make
some difference in the world by talking
about these things but obviously what
she's utterly lacking is any sort of
impetus to do better and you know what
that journalists at the Guardian she
could have been one of those positive
influences she could have been someone
who said look kid here's the standard of
excellence and here's why you as a 23
year old adult are falling far short
[Music]